docs/warehouse/models/SimpleUndetectedPrevalenceEstimator.md, before:

---
title: Simple Undetected Prevalence Estimator
description: Model Page on Website
---

# Simple Undetected Prevalence Estimator
*In development*

Simple Undetected Prevalence Estimator is the first of three models used after sampling has occurred and no positive cases are found to estimate the latent prevalence of CWD. 

Unlike the [**Prevalence Estimator Data Export**](PrevalenceEstimatorDataExport.md), which considers surveillance weights in prevalence estimation, or the [**Probability Disease Freedom Using Clustering Model**](ProbabilityDiseaseFreedomClustering.md) which considers host clustering in prevalence estimation, the Simple Undetected Prevalence Estimator does not require prior knowledge about surveillance weights or host population structure. Rather, the Simple Undetected Prevalence Estimator simply estimates prevalence given the sheer number of negatives recorded.

## Geographical Scale
* Administrative area, subdivided into a sub-administrative areas

## Required Data
* Sample data

## User Inputs
* Cervid species
* Season-year

## Outputs
* An estimate of the underlying prevalence based on a single year of sampling intensity 

## More Information
For more information, go to the [CWD Data Warehouse User Manual: Simple Undetected Prevalence Estimator](https://pages.github.coecis.cornell.edu/CWHL/CWD-Data-Warehouse/upper.html){target="_blank"}.

## Code
To view the code once deployed, go to the [GitHub Repository: Simple Undetected Prevalence Estimator](https://github.com/Cornell-Wildlife-Health-Lab/simple-undetected-prevalence-estimator){target="_blank"}.

Commit message:

Updated latest models
Deleted "In development" for latest model releases. Minor tweaks of some language.

docs/warehouse/models/SimpleUndetectedPrevalenceEstimator.md, after:

---
title: Simple Undetected Prevalence Estimator
description: Model Page on Website
---

# Simple Undetected Prevalence Estimator

The Simple Undetected Prevalence Estimator is one of the Warehouse models that can be used to estimate the latent prevalence of CWD after sampling has occurred and no positive cases were found. 

Unlike the [**Prevalence Estimator Data Export**](PrevalenceEstimatorDataExport.md), which considers surveillance weights in prevalence estimation, or the [**Probability Disease Freedom Using Clustering Model**](ProbabilityDiseaseFreedomClustering.md) which considers host clustering in prevalence estimation, the Simple Undetected Prevalence Estimator does not require prior knowledge about surveillance weights or host population structure. Rather, the Simple Undetected Prevalence Estimator simply estimates prevalence given the sheer number of negatives recorded.

## Geographical Scale
* Administrative area, subdivided into a sub-administrative areas

## Required Data
* Sample data

## User Inputs
* Cervid species
* Season-year

## Outputs
* An estimate of the underlying prevalence based on a single year of sampling intensity 

## More Information
For more information, go to the [CWD Data Warehouse User Manual: Simple Undetected Prevalence Estimator](https://pages.github.coecis.cornell.edu/CWHL/CWD-Data-Warehouse/upper.html){target="_blank"}.

## Code
To view the code once deployed, go to the [GitHub Repository: Simple Undetected Prevalence Estimator](https://github.com/Cornell-Wildlife-Health-Lab/simple-undetected-prevalence-estimator){target="_blank"}.
