docs/join.md, before:

---
title: Join SOP4CWD
description: This is a description of the page.
---

# Become a SOP4CWD Partner!

## Wildlife Agencies

All North American state (US and Mexico), provincial (Canada), and tribal wildlife agencies are welcome to join the CWD Data Warehouse at no cost to them. The more partners we have, the stronger and better the outcomes of this effort will be.

In general, partner wildlife agencies joining the project are expected to be active and engaged partners by maintaining their CWD surveillance and ancillary data in the Warehouse. This includes best available CWD sampling and test data; population demographics; specific CWD introduction risks; historic population management activities and hunting data; and current surveillance program activities.

All participating agencies must approve the CWD Data Warehouse Data Use Agreement (DUA) prior to accessing and using the Warehouse. The DUA establishes the data sharing relationship and defines how agency data in the Warehouse can and cannot be used.

## Modelers and Researchers

The landscape of CWD is constantly changing necessitating ongoing research into how to predict where it will emerge and manage outbreaks. CWD modelers and researchers are welcome to join the SOP4CWD collaboration to help address these challenges and to benefit from the wealth of data stored in the CWD Data Warehouse. The only prerequisite for joining the wildlife health statistics and modeling team is the willingness to aid in the development of novel tools that will simultaneously advance the science of wildlife health and meet the urgent needs of our agency partners. 

<center>[Contact SOP4CWD to join the collaboration!](contact.md){.md-button .md-button--primary}</center>

Commit message:

Overhaul with new models and updates

docs/join.md, after:

---
title: Join SOP4CWD
description: This is a description of the page.
---

# Join the Project by Becoming a Partner
Partnership in any capacity of SOP4CWD is free and open to anyone wishing to contribute to the science, learn new methods, meet new people, or contribute time, energy, or data to benefit everyone in this shared fight against CWD.  

## Contribute Wildlife Agency Data
All wildlife agencies in states (US and Mexico), provinces (Canada), and indigeneous nations (North America) are welcome to join the CWD Data Warehouse at no cost. The more partners we have, the stronger and better the outcomes of this effort will be.

In general, wildlife agencies that join SOP4CWD are expected to be active and engaged by maintaining their CWD data in the Warehouse. This includes best available CWD sampling and test data; population demographics; specific CWD introduction risks; historic population management activities and hunting data; and current surveillance program activities. 

To whatever extent schedules allow, partnering agency representatives are further welcome to engage with modelers at our weekly Quantitative Group meetings to discuss questions, models, ideas, and to engage as coauthors on resulting scientific manuscripts. 

## Engage as a Developer
Ample opportunities exist to learn how to prepare mathematical and statistical models in a container environment for deployment into the CWD Data Warehouse. The benefit of this task is that models are made more readily available for use by agencies with their own data, expanding the reach of the model and its benefit to the scientific and management community.  

## Co-Develop Tools that are New to Science
The landscape of CWD is constantly changing, so models to predict emergence and help manage outbreaks must keep apace with advances in modeling advances. CWD modelers and researchers from any entity are welcome to join the SOP4CWD collaboration to help build models and address challenges. The only prerequisite for joining the Quantitative Group is the willingness to aid in the development of novel tools that will simultaneously advance the science of wildlife health and meet the urgent needs of our agency partners. 

## Enroll in Emailed Project Updates
Keep abreast of SOP4CWD happenings by signing up to receive our semi-annual project updates. These updates include links to publications, updates on Warehouse models and their availability, discussion of research and funding directions, and much more! 

<center>[Contact SOP4CWD to become a partner!](contact.md){.md-button .md-button--primary}</center>
